As mentioned, for your final assignment, you'll be doing a mini-project, with many of the parameters left up to you to fill in. These were some example cases listed in the last assignment:

Implement and use a technique described in class (e.g. probabilistic chart parsing, Hidden Markov Model) for some task you are interested in
Use the tools we have discussed for some purpose of your own interest (e.g., parsing for
sentiment analysis)
Develop or improve upon a technique described in class assignments (e.g., sentiment analysis)
Continue one of your earlier projects, expanding it out into something bigger and better.
Your project (and thus the write-up of the project) should more specifically do the following:

Have a clear purpose, i.e. motivation: how will what you're doing make the world better? (the world of NLP, the world of some application domain, the world at large, ...)
Have a clear long-term goal: what are you setting out to accomplish for the future, given more time and effort?
Have a clear short-term goal: what is it that you set out to accomplish this semester, and how will that accomplishment put you closer to your long-term goal? (Note that being closer could mean having a better understanding of what doesn't work.)
Have a clear implementation: what did you actually do, and how did it achieve your short-term goal(s)?
Note: I don't need to see code within your write-up (though, relevant bits can illustrate a point), but I want to know what approach you took, what difficulties you encountered, what solutions you came up with, what your results are & what they illustrate, etc.
Have a clear evaluation: how can you tell whether you did what you wanted to do or not,
and how can you tell whether you're moving closer to your long-term goals?
Have a clear connection to the literature: where does your project t in the NLP world?
Have a clear connection to this class: where does your project t into the scope of things we
have covered?
Essentially, you are simultaneously writing a research prospectus and doing the legwork to
determine whether and how your prospectus is feasible. Remember that this is a mini-project, so
it will not be exhaustive in scope; rather, the mindset is to put yourself in a good position to do
more exhaustive work after the semester.


Specific requirements to turn in via Canvas:

A paper, approximately 5 pages per person in your group. (I'm happy with longer papers,
too.) The paper will be the focus of my grading, so make sure it is self-contained.
Any associated implementation files that could help me understand what is happening.